yes the same system is bringing some
heavy rain and winds coastal areas of
Washington and Oregon will continue to
be pounded today flooding is possible in
both of those states yesterday part of
Washington got as much as 73 millimeters
of rainfall moving back to Canada now as
we mentioned earlier this same system is
also affecting provinces to the east of
BC a heavy snowfall warning is also in
effect for southwestern Alberta
including Calgary Banff and the Rocky
Mountain House region in fact Rocky
Mountain is forecast to get 15 to 20
centimeters by this evening now for you
would you believe that's coming up in a
few mere days now for the meantime in
the meantime this afternoon this picture
of weather is actually representative of
what's going to be happening at about
7:00 p.m. today Eastern Time and that
means a lot of snow right across the
southern prairies actually from BC into
northwestern Ontario with that Prairie
Clipper heading eastward now that is
going to bring a lot of snow
accumulations in areas like the
foothills of Alberta as well as into
northwestern Ontario we even have some
warnings in effect but also in between
it's going to bring some blowing and
drifting snow very low visibility there
in the East some flakes certainly
clearing out in Newfoundland or clearest
remaining so in Newfoundland but some
stormy conditions into New Brunswick and
Nova Scotia a mixed bag of precip there
now Tuesday that clears though but
things still cloudy because of an
approaching system Newfoundland not
looking too bad in fact clearing out as
the day progresses but into areas like
the nickel belt and into Quebec and
a--shoe Boogaloo and Abitibi
regions we could see some serious
accumulations happening right down
through to southern Ontario where a few
centimeters are indeed possible now
things really clearing out throughout
the prairies on Tuesday although under
that arctic ridge of high pressure
things very chilly still well below
seasonal and another system hitting the
BC coast as well as affecting the
foothills and what's going to happen is
on Wednesday that is going to track
itself we're bringing the snow with it
so whatever happened on Tuesday clearing
out a little bit Wednesday a bit of a
break some Lake Effect flurries into
southern Ontario and that low affecting
Labrador and most of Newfoundland as
well as northern portions of the
Maritimes Thursday that's clearing out
but windy and we could still see some
flakes along this trough its trough some
lake effect stuff into southern Ontario
Brigit in the prairies and that
low-pressure system still affecting
southern BC and Alberta Canada garden
ci is surrounded by spectacular beaches
and dotted with beautiful villages
spring here is on the cool side summers
are pleasantly mild and breezy but
average daytime high I'm of the most
variable weather in the country good
morning Canada on this holiday Monday
morning lots of active weather to tell
you about from coast to coast as a
matter of fact the bulk of the activity
is in BC and Alberta but as well in
between there in northwestern Ontario
we're still talking about blowing snow
blizzard conditions we've got wind we've
got rain hanging around we'll stick
around we'll have more shortly
back to the morning report I have your
continental current conditions right now
maybe you do want to head south of the
border maybe you have relatives down
there okay you might want to avoid areas
like Montana North Dakota Washington
Oregon as a matter of fact with these
rains we could get blood conditions so
not ideal places to visit as you can see
right throughout the northern us Plains
a little bit of activity in the last few
hours and right along the eastern side
as a matter of fact some patchy snow
into the American northeast now north of
the border things aren't much better as
a matter of fact worse in some areas you
can see in southern Saskatchewan here
how this activity is creeping up and in
extreme southern portions of
Saskatchewan we actually have blizzard
warnings right now if you didn't think
we had enough warnings to tell you about
and I will tell you about what's
happening north of the border if I can
have my trusty handy dandy isobar map
there it is look at that I have so much
power here now in the West you can see
these isobars very tightly wrapped
together that means very windy
conditions and that's definitely making
for some wind warnings now it looks
clear in the center especially into
northwestern Ontario one would think
that's the only area with no activity
today and one would be wrong because
what's happening is you've heard of a
Prairie clipper before well this is
actually more a Montana clipper because
the activity that's happening in Montana
right now is going to quickly clip
across if you will into northwestern
Ontario making for a heavy snowfall
warning into northwestern Ontario into
the Wawa Superior East region later on
today and into tonight now into the rest
of Ontario not too bad and a warm sector
as a matter of fact and so areas like
Toronto seeing well above seasonal temps
quite mild at about 5:00 Ottawa minus
one still above seasonal and in the East
we're going to see some stormy light
conditions first in New Brunswick and
then into Nova Scotia and you can see
all of the cloud cover associated with
that Newfoundland not seeing too much of
that that will be later on into Tuesday
into tomorrow southern Ontario as I
mentioned looking nice and clear not too
bad at all some low-lying cloud but it's
into northwestern Ontario that we have a
heavy snowfall warning in effect for
superior north and wha-wha Superior East
four to eight centimeters snow is
expected by the
evening and then a further 10 to 20
centimeters into the overnight that will
ease up tomorrow morning but if you're
heading out on highways 11 or 17 you
might want to think twice it's going to
be very bad conditions to drive as well
zero visibility in some areas and not
grant much greater than that in others
right throughout the southern prairies
with blowing and drifting snow
associated with that same low pressure
system but it's really at West End
British Columbia Alberta that we're
talking about the snow let's start with
BC and Alberta and Saskatchewan and
we'll talk about the heavy snowfall
warning over the foothills as you can
see not looking too great right now
we've been seeing some snow into areas
like Calgary the snowfall warning
includes Calgary Canon ass-kiss Banff
Lethbridge Crowsnest and Pinchot Creek
10 to 15 centimeters expected there and
into southern Saskatchewan as I
mentioned certainly blizzard warning for
Swift Current Moose Jaw and asuna boya
now 5 to 10 centimeters as well as some
brisk northeasterly winds going to make
for blizzard conditions visibility again
reduced to next to nothing now out west
into BC this heavy snowfall warning has
we've begun to exclude some areas but as
you can see it income this as much of
the southern interior of BC we also have
a snowfall warning for Whistler another
10 to 15 centimeters expected by the end
of the day some of that could be mixed
with rain but snow is snow in the West
isn't it we also have wind warnings as
you can see right along the coastal
regions although it has been dropped for
some regions like Greater Vancouver in
the Central Coast coastal sections as
well an Arctic outflow warning in north
coastal inland regions with the
windchill making things feel very chilly
indeed now here is your full travelers
forecast
bring only bad news well so far this is
kind of a good news story we can use a
little bit of hope in our life that you
can start again and in fact as things
have turned out as I say the book I have
never been happier I mean I just I love
what I do okay so let's look at the bad
news aspect okay you get fired did you
see it coming did you no no I had this
wonderful